---
title: Kindle, reading & hobby
date: 2026-04-23
description: My e-reader story, reading journey
---
Looking back at my 2nd hand Kindle covered in a green case, I am grateful to my brother who gave it for my birthday.  My experience about the e-ink screen was successful. It fixed all my problems with traditional books: exhausted arms holding, light issues, few reading postures. The Kindle has been with me for roughly a year and a half now and I want to make a recap about my reading journey.

Before that day, I mostly read mystery, thriller novels on physical books. I usually stay in my bed or hammock to enjoy the novels, thats the reason why holding a heavy book on my hands is the bad idea. I gonna have only two way, hold the book up in the air or lie down on my chest, both will hurt either my back or chest sorely. Carring a Kindle in my palm is really a game changer, it's smaller, lighter, I am free from the physical constraints. One more inconvenient thing is the built-in light enable me to read in the dark place or at night. That light is installed inside the device, around the screent to reduce eye stress (which different than normal screen phone, it will directly point to our face). Therefore, I choose to buy the Paperwhite 1 Kindle found online with a reasonably price (750k). Although it is super old ( released from 2012), it still get the job done. Both features are designed for long reading sessions, which more significantly pleasure than reading from phone screen. Even when this device is blacklisted ( similar to blacklisted Iphone, I can not connect to the official feature "Send to Kindle") which making its more cheaper, I found uploading books directly from my laptop is acceptable. The battery condition is still good, needs charging for about 1 - 2 weeks.

About my reading progress, I counted that 15 books I finished on the device. Those first books are just mystery, thrilling novels from Japanese author. Then I started with other genre with magical realism, literacy fiction and science fiction recently. Looking back at the journey, I can feel my transformation, maybe it is a shift of my mind set as I start picking up some philosophy, stoicism books but not finish. I choose to read as a way of hobby, relaxation, not the learning way. I believe that staying away of the stimulated internet, and having actually, realistic hobbies are the essential skills in this era. Back to the reading, sometime I still keep in touch with the old traditional books, touching the books, smelling the papers. Those were the good old days, but the technology gonna be the future. 


